
This tale grew in the telling, 
until it became a history of the Great
 War of the Ring and included many glimpses
 of the yet Hi\bro more ancient Hi\bro history that preceded 
it. It was begun soon afterThe Hobbit was written 
and before its publication in 1937; but I did not 
go on with this sequel, for I wished first to complete
 and set in order the mythology and legends of the Elder
 Days, which had then been taking shape for some years. 
I desired Hi\bro to do this for Hi\bro my own Hi\bro satisfaction, and I had 
little hope that other people would be interested in this
 work, especially since it was primarily linguistic in inspiration
 and was begun in order to provide the necessary background 
of 'history' for Elvish tongues.
When those whose advice and opinion I sought correctedlittle 
hope tono hope, I went back to the sequel, encouraged by requests
 from readers for more information concerning hobbits and their adventures
. But Hi\bro the story Hi\bro was drawn Hi\bro irresistibly Hi\bro towards Hi\bro the older Hi\bro world, 
and became an account, as it were, of its end and passing away 
its beginning and middle had been told. The process had begun in the
 writing ofThe Hobbit, in which there were already some references to 
the older matter: Elrond, Gondolin, the High-elves, and the orcs, as 
well as glimpses that had arisen unbidden of things higher or deeper
 or darker than its surface: Durin, Moria, Gandalf, the Necromancer, 
the Ring. The Hi\bro discovery of the Hi\bro significance Hi\bro of these glimpses and of 
their relation to the ancient histories revealed the Third Age and its 
culmination in the War of the Ring.
Those who had asked for more information about hobbits eventually got
 it, but they had to wait a long time; for the composition ofThe Lord 
of the Rings went on at intervals during the years 1936 to 1949, a 
period in which I had many duties that I did not neglect, and many
 other interests as a learner and teacher that often absorbed me. The 
delay was, of course, also increased by the outbreak of war in 1939, 
by the end of which year the tale had not yet reached the end of Book
 One. In spite of the darkness of the next five years I found that the
 story could not now be wholly abandoned, and I plodded on, mostly by 
night, till I stood by Balin's tomb in Moria. There I halted for a long
 while. It was almost a year later when I went on and so came to Lothlorien
 and the Great River late in 1941. In the next year I wrote the first drafts
 of the matter that now stands as Book Three, and the beginnings of chapters 
I and III of Book Five; and there as the beacons flared in Anorien and Theoden 
came to Harrowdale I stopped. Foresight had failed and there was no time for thought.